I never liked talking about myself
online and maybe you are the same. And
for years I focused only and purely on
technical content about marketing. But
one day I had to try something different
on LinkedIn. I remember it was in
October 2023 when I started to publish
storytelling content. And when it
finally took off, everything changed. My
content grew. I got more leads and I
started to build a personal brand. But
I'm not talking about any kind of
storytelling. As I said, I'm not sharing
weekend updates or random anecdotes
about my personal life. What I do, I
call it expert storytelling. I start
from my expertise and I share stories
that are related to this expertise. And
in this video, I'm going to show you
exactly how to do it with seven
pragmatic examples that you can use at
the end of this video. First of all, let
me answer this question. Why does expert
storytelling matters and why does it
work well? Well, there are three main
reasons. First reason, it connects your
expertise to your personal brand.
Because when people associate your
expertise with your face and with your
name, it creates a deeper connection.
Second reason, it builds trust and
likability. People are more likely to
buy from other people that they trust
and also that they like rather than
buying from a faceless brand that they
cannot really trust. And third reason,
it drives real business results. When I
started, I saw an uplift on my
conversions as well. Why? Because I was
sharing expertise with the length of my
personal experience. People thought that
everything that I was sharing was
directly from something that I've lived
and it was not something that I've read
somewhere else. The key of expert
storytelling is very simple. is to share
what no one else can share because no
one can steal your backstory or steal
your opinion or your point of view on
the market. Only you have this specific
storytelling. They want your voice, your
lessons from your experience. So now you
tell me, okay, that's good. Expert
storytelling sounds good, but how should
I do it exactly? Well, I'm going to
answer to this question exactly now with
the seven types of content that you can
use right now. First type of content,
share your back story, but do it in a
very specific way that I'm going to show
you now. You're going to summarize your
journey. So, you're going to answer your
question, how did you get here where you
are now? You're going to highlight the
key moments, the key milestones, and the
key challenges that you faced because
people want to see the behind the
scenes. It makes you relatable and it
shows a progression in your career and
you can also have specific anecdotes
along the way. All right, type of
content number two, explain your opinion
on a trending topic. I remember when
Chad GPT plus was released. I did a post
on my opinion on how it's going to
affect the world business industry and
how much money they will make. I
remember one of the post made millions
of views because it was my perspective
on a specific news. So, you're going to
choose a topic that you care about, that
is important for you, and that is
related to your expertise. And you're
going to share your opinion about this
topic. And to be honest, people want
sharp opinions and also opinions that
are backed by experience and by
expertise. Because if you give your
opinion about something you don't know
anything about, people will feel it and
they will not engage. Third content
type, show your point of view. A point
of view is different from an opinion
because a point of view is more a zoom
out on all the things that you've
analyzed in the past years. So
basically, you conduct experiments, you
work on your dayto-day, you meet people,
you exchange with clients, you sell, and
with those patterns you can create your
own point of view. Type of content
number four, you should write a how I or
how we piece of content. This one is
very simple. You're going to analyze
what you've done in the past year and
ask yourself, did you fix a problem with
a solution that you came up with for one
of your clients or for you? And you're
going to explain the story of how you've
done that for the client, for example.
So the template here is very simple. You
need a problem that you or your clients
faced. Second, you need to have a
solution. Third, you need to have a
story of how you implemented this
solution with the challenges that came.
And fourth, you need the end result,
which is usually the ideal situation
after the problem. And you're going to
explain this step by step. And this is
going to create a nice storytelling
piece that is also related to your
expertise. Type of content number five,
share your company vision. And if you
don't have a company, share your
long-term vision. So everything I shared
is interesting because it's about what
you are doing, your day-to-day, your
expertise, your point of view, your
opinion. But what about your long-term
vision? You need to answer those
following questions. Why are you doing
what you are doing right now? Why did
you start your business or your career?
What are you trying to fix that will
have a deep impact on society, a
positive impact and what is your bigger
mission? So this will share your values
and why you are doing what you are
doing. So it will create depth and it
will be very interesting to follow your
adventure because we know what you are
after. Type of content number six is to
build your business or your career in
public. So let me tell you exactly what
it means. Daily you are doing tasks. You
are also facing challenges or emotions
such as joy, frustration and also fears.
Well, all those elements when you let
them aside, you feel like they are not
really interesting. But when you start
combining them and sharing them in
public, it becomes very valuable for
your audience because let me tell you
one thing, you are always one, two, or
three steps in advance compared to
someone else. And last but not least,
content type number seven, it's very
simple. You're going to share a list of
your thoughts, opinions, or tips on a
specific topics. Now, you might think
that this is not storytelling because
it's about your expertise. But what you
should do is to inject your story inside
those list in order to create authority
and to share more about your story. Let
me explain what it means. First, you're
going to choose a topic that you love
and that is related to your expertise.
Then you're going to share let's say
five tips or or nine lessons. You will
write the things that you've learned in
the past year or in the past 5 years
about this topic. Every time you share a
lesson, you can link it to a personal
anecdote to a professional anecdote that
explain why, when, and where you learned
this. So this will create depth to your
content. So overall, expert storytelling
is not about being too personal or
sharing personal anecdotes. It's about
linking your story as a professional to
your expertise. Because to be honest, I
don't think people want to know
everything about everyone. They want to
know the behind the scenes about people
they trust because of their expertise.
So, if this video was useful, please hit
the like button and you can also
subscribe to receive the next video and
comment if you have any question. Also,
make sure to check the link in the
description where I give you the five
LinkedIn post formats that helped me to
get to 148,000
followers on LinkedIn.